So by now,
we've deployed everything we set out to deploy and created
every part of our application we wanted to,
but these resources aren't free,
so let's make sure we clean them up if we're not
planning on using them later on.
First, I'm going to delete all the resources related to CodeDeploy specifically.
So I'll go to the Application section here and then click
into my tutorial‑bluegreen‑app application,
and I'll click Delete application.
I'll need to type in delete here and then press that one more time.
This should take care of my CodeDeploy application and the
related deployments to that application.
Next up, let's go to ECS to make sure we get rid of those resources too.
Inside of ECS,
we should see something like this with our tutorial‑bluegreen‑cluster.
Let's go ahead and click into that and start
removing the resources inside of it.
The most important part is probably to delete the cluster itself,
which we can do by pressing that Delete Cluster button,
but we can also go in here and delete the service too,
so I'll start with that.
Let's delete the service, type in delete me,
and then we'll go back up one level, and we'll also delete the cluster itself.
This should happen automatically after we delete the
service going back up one level.
Now we'll delete the cluster too and this should take a little bit longer.
Ah,
but it looks like because we currently still have a task
active from our earlier deployment, we have to delete that,
too.
So let's go to the Tasks section,
we'll click on the drop‑down here and select the task that's currently
running, then we can stop this task and click Stop again,
and this should make sure that that's not going to be
running any longer and serving traffic.
If we go to the Stop section,
we should see several stop tasks, some of these are
from our earlier deployments.
Once these all appear as stopped,
we should be able to delete our cluster. We can also refresh this page here and
eventually see this task transition from running to stopped.
Currently,
it's slowly shutting this task down and making sure
that it won't continue running.
In the meantime, though,
we can go over to another section of the AWS console with the EC2 section.
We'll go there and then hop over to the load balancer section at the
very bottom and we should see our bluegreen‑alb load balancer here. We
could first remove the listeners on this alb and then we can delete the
load balancer itself as well.
Now, once we've done this,
we can also go over to the VPC section of the AWS console and remove some
of our network resources. So let's type in VPC here,
go to the VPC section, and we can remove the VPC we initially
created and that should cascade down to other things.
I happen to have it memorized that this is the VPC that I created, but
you could also check if you only have two, you probably just have one
default and one non‑default VPC. In our case,
we want to delete the non‑default VPC.
Now make sure that you're only deleting the one that you created in
this demo as those are pretty critical resources for applications
that rely on AWS's networking services.
So now that I know I have the right one selected,
let's go to the Actions drop‑down and let's click Delete VPC.
This will delete a bunch of other resources underneath it,
including the internet gateway, the route tables,
the subnets, and the security group that were all linked up to that VPC.
So let's type in delete here and click Delete one more time.
This should detach everything and delete everything as well.
Now that we're done with this process,
I just want to point out that AWS has been experimenting
with a new UI here, so if you see the option to select a new
VPC experience in the top left,
you can toggle this new view on or off with that button.
And if you're in this view,
you're probably going to want to toggle it on so that you can see
the steps as I was doing them in this newer view.
Now that we've deleted a lot of our networking resources,
let's go back to ECS and make sure that our tasks are done running.
So this is currently still just our single task and it looks like it
hasn't finished, so let's try stopping it again.
It looks like we're stopping the task successfully this time.
So now we should be able to go to the Services section,
and if we have any services here,
they'd show up here, but we successfully deleted our old one,
so we should be able to just delete the cluster itself here,
Let's type in delete me one more time and this should work now
that we don't have any more tasks running.
Alright,
now we've deleted our clusters, we've deleted our tasks, we've
deleted our networking resources that we spent so long trying to get
together, and we've deleted our code deploy resources. With
everything cleaned up here, hopefully,
we're not going to get billed for anything that we left behind.
But I will point out that if we go to Task Definitions,
our Task Definition is still in here.
Our task definitions shouldn't be charging us as long as
we're not running them inside of a cluster,
though.
So now that we're done deleting everything,
congratulations again on making it through this pretty technical demo.
Hopefully, this will be helpful if you're working with ECS and CodeDeploy in the future.